---
layout: post
title: "Judgment of Social Media Entrepreneurship"
date: 2012-06-04 01:15
comments: true
categories: [entrepreneurship]
---

In recent times, it seems that there has been continual negativity against
social media and social network-based entrepreneurship. They've been
continually criticized for adding minimal value to society and being
opportunistic. Other times, they're viewed as young people who just want to
start a company for the sake of starting a company. Indeed, I agree that social
media and social network-based problems are not the most important issues that
our society faces today. I think that much of the criticism of the changed VC
landscape and the resulting short-termed thinking of investors is quite valid,
but I believe that the criticism sometimes goes a little far when it begins to
condemn the individuals who are starting these companies (which I'll refer to
for the rest of this post as social media startups).

The primary criticism of social media startups is that they are not adding much
value to society or the economy, and that their talents, capital, and efforts
would be much better spent solving "real" problems like education, energy, or
our healthcare system. While this is certainly true, it's also quite an unfair
criticism to make. Before giving any proper critique, one should always
consider the likely alternatives to the object of criticism -- or else they
risk wasting their breath on something that can't be easily changed or being
unfair by criticizing something that, although flawed, turns out to be the
better than most other options. I believe that most criticism of social media
startups fails to do the latter.

<!-- more -->

It is true that entrepreneurs working on social media startups could be working
on harder, more meaningful problems, but in reality it's much more likely that
wouldn't be doing either. Starting a company is quite difficult, and if they
weren't working on their social media startup, they would probably be at a
regular job at some company or startup, perhaps at sort of marketing, sales, or
business development role. Honestly, given that alternative, starting a company
creates much more value: It creates jobs and generates value for businesses or
consumers. I think many people jump on the bandwagon to knock on social media
startups and didn't take the time to really consider what the alternative would
be.

Most importantly of all, critics fail to realize what the social media startup
sets up the entrepreneurship for in his or her future. Most successful
entrepreneurs after having exited their company will return to start another
business, but with greater aspirations to make more impact and create an even
greater legacy. Having already achieved success and financial freedom, these
entrepreneurs will now invest their knowledge, experience, and capital to
tackle more meaningful problems in society.

It seems absurd that we should condemn these entrepreneurs for not attempting
difficult problems that most of us would not even attempt! We hold them to much
too high of a standard, when most of us allow ourselves to get away without the
greatest of ambitions. Rather, we should give them our encouragement and
support, so that they may grow, learn, and succeed in order to continue to
contribute more and more to society in meaningful ways as time passes. Wouldn't
we want the same for ourselves? After all, it's always hard work to create
value.
